---
layout: post
title:  "buffer"
date:   2015-05-09 01:34:19
categories: buffer node
---

Before I write about `streams` I think it's important that I write about `buffers` first just to give some context. `Buffers` can be a new thing to those JavaScripters that are coming from client side because it's not available there. So what are `buffers` in the first place?

`Buffer`, a term in itself is very over loaded. There can be a buffer between two strangers, buffer in a chemical solution, buffer in a railway track. But the buffer that we're interested in computer science is a physical memory where we temporarily hold the data so that it can be moved from one place to another, usually in a smooth manner.  
Let's take a really common example of `buffer`. Back when broadband wasn't common we'd usually see videos being "buffered" on the Internet. What it's trying to say when the video is being buffered is that the input/download is lot slower than that's being outputted/playbacked and that is why that video is being stored in the memory first before it starts playing back for a smoother playback.

So what does all this mean to us, node developers? In a really simple terms, it's a way to hold binary data. Often times when dealing with network we're not blessed with input being on the equal speed with the output and we need to hold some raw data to make it as smooth as possible. Here, raw or binary data can be anything from network streams to file systems. Core(client) JavaScript only was unicode friendly and even though earlier versions of `node` used unicode to handle data it was soon realized that it didn't play nice with binary data and hence `buffer` was created.

Since `buffer` is a core component in `node` you don't really have to do `require('buffer')`. You can just start playing with buffer by doing `new Buffer(2)`. And as you can see that `buffer` in `node` is a class and holds 2 bytes of data because we passed an argument of 2. `Buffer` behaves like an array however once you specify the size it cannot be resized. No matter how much you try it'll only hold 2 bytes of information. Speaking of which, you write to a buffer by doing:-


    var k = new Buffer(2);  
    k.write('blah');


If you execute the above code in the `node repl` then you'll see some funny looking characters. Those funny looking characters are binary data that we talked about earlier. `Buffer` saves everything in raw data and you'd have to specify encoding. You can usually do `toString()` to get the actual data but if your encoding type is something other than `utf8` then you'd have to specify it as `toString('ascii')` or other encoding type based on your need. By default, `node` uses `utf8` as an encoding type, for others, you specify.  
The above code can also be written as:-  


    var k = new Buffer('blah', 'utf-8');

The above code is a little different from the previous one in a sense that you're sending a string instead of an integer as a constructor parameter and setting the encoding to 'utf-8' on instantiation.

Here's something else that you can try:-


    var k = new Buffer(11);  
    k.write('i ♥ u');  
    k.toString();  
    k.write(' man', 7, 'utf-8');  


Here, you're setting a buffer of 11 bytes. Notice that ♥ takes 3 bytes instead of just 1 like other letters. Other encoding types also may vary on the bytes. On the third line you'll again see `i ♥ u` followed by weird characters and symbols. Those are again, binary data and buffer sticks with that 11 bytes and displays everything.  
In the fourth line there I'm setting an offset of 7, meaning that it will start writing after 7 bytes of data and will write `i ♥ u man`

You can play with `buffer` more and the [node docs](https://nodejs.org/api/buffer.html#buffer_buffer) are pretty straight forward to follow.

So here is the TL;DR of this whole post:-

- Buffer holds binary data
- Is only available in `node` and not in core js.
- No need to `require('buffer')`
- Buffers are fixed but acts like an array
- `new Buffer` to make an instance
- Can be converted to different encodings
- Default is `utf-8`
- usually, `toString` to read `buffers`

Also, if you really want to get into details of `buffer` here's a really good talk by [Trevor Norris ](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aJrM46yzg0Q)
