---
layout: post
title:  "cors"
date:   2015-04-20 01:34:19
categories: cors browser xhr
---

This post is going to be a little different. The core topic won't be on JavaScript or node however, it will touch on them a little later. The primary reason for me to write this post was because we make and consume lots of APIs today and it can be frustrating at times if we don't know some rules that apply on using them. This post will try to give you that 20,000 feet view at what *CORS* is and how you can use it.

##What is CORS?
CORS, Cross Origin Resource Sharing, despite what *wikipedia* says, is a mechanism that allows or restricts, cross-site (from one domain to another) sharing of the resources which was previously not possible because of [*same-origin policy*](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Security/Same-origin_policy) implemented in browsers. With *same-origin policy* it was only possible to make requests from one domain to another on scripts, images, stylesheets, iframes and other plugins. Any other requests like `ajax` which has advance requests like `POST`, `PUT` and`DELETE` are not allowed. You could still make any requests if you were on the same domain with the *same-origin policy* but with the help of *CORS* we are now allowed to make `ajax` requests cross domain. (Note that I use *allow* word a lot. It has a reason. Continue.)  
The overall idea of *CORS* is for the client (browser) to send it's origin to the server and for server to determine whether to accept the request and send the proper response or not. This is done by using some custom HTTP headers that's defined in W3C.  
The main players in this process are browsers and servers. When I say browsers, I mean that browser implementators have to follow certain rules to make this happen as well. There are still other headers that users (person who's making ajax request) can add to their requests as well like `withCredentials` and other custom headers. But I won't be covering about that here. You can read more about them on the links below.

##Flow
The flow is pretty straight forward once we learn what's happening. In order, following are the things that happen:-
- You make a `XMLHttpRequest()` to domain other than the one you're on, aka, `Origin`. `Origin` constitutes of <scheme>://<host>:<port> e.g. http://spotify.com is different than https://spotify.com (different scheme) or http://store.spotify.com (different host) or http://spotify.com:81 (different port)
- The browser sees that you're trying to make a request other than the same origin and adds `Origin` header on your request.
- It reaches the server. The server if it wants to allow other domain to access it's service then it adds `Access-Control-Allow-Origin` with either the `origin` from the request or simply `*` which represents that it allows everyone to access it's service. e.g. `Access-Control-Allow-Origin: http://spotify.com` or `Access-Control-Allow-Origin: *`. By default this is not set. You as an API developer have to set it yourself. The response is sent to the browser with or without `Access-Control-Allow-Origin`
- The browser checks if it has `Access-Control-Allow-Origin` header and checks the permission. If either the request origin or * is present on that header then it lets the response to go through and everything works normal. If not then you'll see an error displayed on your browser console mentioning something about not being able to process the response.

##Code
Okay, now that we got the theoretical portion covered. Let's see it in code.

###On the client side:-
On client side you'd do what you're normally familiar with. It's also preferred if you check for `withCredentials` property on `XMLHTTPRequest` before making requests just to make sure that the browser supports *CORS*

    var xhr = new XMLHttpRequest();
    if(!'withCredentials' in xhr)){
      alert('No CORS!!');
      return;
    }
    xhr.open('GET', 'http://store.spotify.com'); // of course this url is just an example
    xhr.onerror = function(){
      alert('There was an error!!');
    };
    xhr.onload = function(){
      var data = JSON.parse(xhr.responseText);
      console.log(data);
    };
    xhr.send();

Nothing particularly different from our regular `XHR` request.  
If you look at your `Network` tab and check your `Request Headers` you should see `Origin` header set by the browser.

###On the server side
I'm gonna use node for this (shocking!!) mainly `express` because everybody should be familiar with it.

    var app = require('express')();  
    var CORS = function(req, res, next){  
     res.set('Access-Control-Allow-Origin', '*');  
    };  
    app.use(CORS);  
    app.get('/', function(req, res){  
    res.json({  
      'test': 'Hello World'  
      });  
    }  
    );  
    app.listen(3000, function(){  
      console.log('listening in 3000');  
    });  

The main line here is the `res.set('Access-Control-Allow-Origin', '*')` and `app.use(CORS)`. In the former you're setting a header that enables *CORS*. You could have done `res.set('Access-Control-Allow-Origin':'http://mysiteonly.com'` if you want to allow only specific sites to have access to your resources.
In the latter, it's just a middleware that is gone through on every request making sure there's *CORS* header on your every response.
And to reiterate, this header is seen by browser when the response reaches it and based on the permission level, it allows or denies the request. On denial or no *CORS* header it fires up the `onerror` event that you set in the client before.

This was just a brief introduction to *CORS*. There are many other things that are still uncovered in this post. `HTML5 Canvas`, `preflight request` and `withCredentials` comes to mind. For more info on them check out following resources.

More resources:-  

- [CORS in Action (book)](http://manning.com/hossain/) *use coupon code(hossainco) for 39% discount*  
- [MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Access_control_CORS)  
- [HTML5 Rocks](http://www.html5rocks.com/en/tutorials/cors/)  
